\chapter*{Abstract}
XXX (Will write this last)

\chapter*{Acknowledgments}

I would like to thank Rafael Calvo for his expert supervision of my
thesis, and for giving me the opportunity to pursue this project.  The
rest of the Web Engineering Group---Jae-Moon Lee, Xiaobo Li, Nick
Carroll, and Gosia Mandrela---provided valuable testing and feedback
on \aicat\ and created a quite pleasant working environment.  The
Language Technology group---particularly Casey Whitelaw, Elisabeth
Crawford, and Jon Patrick---was also a good source of feedback and
inspiration.  The Open-Source community provided incentives to write
clean, usable, documented software by their mere existence.  Research
Assistantship funding from the Capital Markets Co-operative Research
Centre provided much-appreciated support for research on the Signal G
corpus.

On a more personal level, I would like Sheri Schechinger for sticking
with me across ten thousand miles of ocean, and the city of Sydney for
being such a great place to spend time.

\chapter*{Preface}

This thesis represents research into and implementation of a framework
for automatic Text Categorization (TC).  In order to produce such a
framework, research into current TC algorithms has been necessary, as
well as research into software engineering practices for building
object-oriented frameworks.

The framework, called \aicat, has been designed with the goal of being
generically useful for building real-world TC applications, and for
being extensible using common framework extension techniques.

\section*{Availability}

XXX - say where this thesis is available, and where \aicat\ is
available, and where data sets are available

\section*{Licensing}

XXX - explain open source license, what license \aicat\ is released
under, what license this thesis is released under

\section*{Motivations}

XXX - write about why I did this project, from personal perspective

\chapter*{Statement of Originality}
XXX, don't know what goes here
