\chapter{Evaluation}

\section{Descriptions of corpora}
During development and testing, several data sets are used for
framework testing and application building.  The main data sets are
listed here.


\subsection{ApteMod (Reuters-21578)}


The ``ApteMod'' version of the Reuters-21578 corpus has become a
standard benchmark corpus in evaluating Text Categorization systems.
It is a collection of 10,788 documents from the Reuters newswire
service, partitioned into a training set with 7769 documents and a
test set with 3019 documents.  The total size of the corpus is about
17.5 Mb.  It is available from
\url{http://moscow.mt.cs.cmu.edu:8081/reuters_21578/} in SMART format.


\subsection{SignalG}
This corpus consists of 122,919 financial announcement documents from
the Australian Stock Exchange between January 4 and December 29, 2000.
The documents are hand-categorized according to whether they indicate
``market sensitivity'' or not.  Every document is a member of either the
``sensitive'' or ``insensitive'' category---we can view this as two
categories that partition the corpus, or as a single category
``sensitive'' that some documents belong to and others don't.  The
documents are split into a training set of 81,814 documents and a test
set of 41,105 documents.


\subsection{DrMath}
This is a smallish collection (26.5 Mb) of English-language messages
sent to the ``Ask Dr. Math'' question-and-answer service for students
(\url{http://www.mathforum.org/dr.math/}).  It consists of messages
containing math questions, categorized by topic and grade level.  Each
category specifies both topic and grade level information (i.e. ``High
School Geometry''), so these categorization tasks are not generally
separable into a categorization by topic and a categorization by
level.  The corpus is divided into a training set with 5304 documents
and a test set with 1326 documents.  The corpus is not available for
direct download, but you may contact Ken Williams for details.


\subsection{Reuters-CRC}
This is a collection of financial announcements gathered from the
Reuters financial service in the year 2000.  It represents all
announcements sent by the top 500 companies on the Australian Stock
Exchange (determined by trading volume) during 2000.  There are 27,874
documents, partitioned randomly into 18,568 training documents and
9,306 test documents (105 Mb training, 52.5 Mb test).  We have imposed
a categorization scheme on the data set by examining trends in related
training data, so that each document becomes a member of either the
category ``insensitive'' or ``sensitive'', similar to the SignalG data
set.  The corpus is the property of Capital Markets Cooperative
Research Centre and is not available for use by outside groups.


\section{Performance evaluation}

\section{Applications}


\section{Dissemination}
\subsection{Documentation}
\subsection{Community involvement}
